---
title: Classes or Hooks
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Classes or Hooks

> >

In React, you can reuse bits of code called components...using of two styles: classes and hooks. Let's take a look at the differences and why hooks are more dominant.

---

# Components

- Reusable code
- Accept `props`
- Return display

> >

Before we get into classes or hooks, lets define what a component is and does.

Components are a way to create reusable code. Think of them like functions that are a bit more flexible.

Components can accept any number of inputs called props

and they return what will be displayed as part of your application.

---

# Class Components

- Object syntax
- Still valid
- Harder to write

> >

React has been around for quite a while and until recently, its exclusively used the object syntax to create components.

It's something that's fallen out of favor, but is still valid, but it's less familiar to modern developers.

---

# Class Component

```jsx
import React, { Component } from "react";

class Welcome extends React.Component {
  constructor() {
    super();
  }
  render() {
    return <h1>Meet the StarGazers</h1>;
  }
}
```

> >

This is a basic class based components. Let's jump into our code.

It might look familiar if you're used to writing Class based JavaScript.

In order to use components, we import the React object and the component object from the React library.

Next we start by declaring a Class. Class names are always capitalized.

Next we use the class to extend the functionality of a React component.

We then use a special function called a constructor. The job of the constructor is to initialize the instance of the class when it is used.

Then we get into the render statement, where you output what you want React to show.

That seems like a lot for a simple component and that's the way components worked for a long time.

---

# Passing Props

```jsx
class Welcome extends React.Component {
  constructor(props) {
    super(props);
  }
  render() {
    return <h1>Meet the <i>{this.props.name}</i></h1>
  }
}
```

> >

A component that just prints out some HTML is pretty useles, so let's take a look at how we can make it accept a parameter, like you would a function.

To do that, we can pass along props, or properties to the component, just like we would with a regular HTML tag.

In our return statement, we can use the this keyword to target the props we receive in the constructor and then display our name.

---

# Hooks

```jsx
const Welcome = (props) => {
  return (
    <h1>Meet the <i>{props.name}</i></h1>
  )
}
```

> >

Hooks allow you to use the function syntax you already know to create componets. Let's take a look at how you would use them to create this component. You'll see that it's a lot simpler.